src/content/modules/01-reference/module.md, before:

---
id: "01-reference"
title: "Reference & Research"
tagline: "Help patrons faster with AI-assisted reference responses"
icon: "book-open"
estimated_minutes: 60
role_tags: ["reference", "liaison"]
exercises:
  - id: "01-orient"
    title: "Orient Claude to Your Library"
    estimated_minutes: 15
  - id: "02-patron-query"
    title: "Draft a Reference Response"
    estimated_minutes: 15
  - id: "03-synthesize"
    title: "Synthesize Multiple Sources"
    estimated_minutes: 15
  - id: "04-followup"
    title: "Refine and Follow Up"
    estimated_minutes: 15
---

## About This Module

Academic reference work requires quickly assessing patron questions, identifying authoritative sources, and synthesizing information across multiple domains. In this module, you'll learn how Claude Code can help you draft polished reference responses faster—while keeping you in control of the final output.

You won't write any code. Instead, you'll practice giving Claude clear, context-rich prompts and refining its responses for your patrons.

## What You'll Learn

- How to orient Claude Code to your library's communication style using a context file
- How to use `/help` to explore available commands and `/clear` to reset conversation context
- How to reference files directly in prompts using the `@` syntax
- How to draft and refine reference responses for complex patron questions, including follow-ups
- How to ask Claude to flag its own uncertain claims before you share output
- How to iterate on Claude's output through audience reframing, transparency prompting, and constraints
- How to use `claude --print` for quick one-off questions without opening a full session

## Before You Begin

Make sure Claude Code is installed on your machine. Installation instructions for each platform:

- [macOS](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup)
- [Windows](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup#set-up-on-windows)
- [Linux](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup)

Once installed, open a terminal and navigate to the `library-context/` folder provided with this workshop. You'll run all exercises from that folder.

Commit message:

Update modules with release package url

src/content/modules/01-reference/module.md, after:

---
id: "01-reference"
title: "Reference & Research"
tagline: "Help patrons faster with AI-assisted reference responses"
icon: "book-open"
estimated_minutes: 60
role_tags: ["reference", "liaison"]
exercises:
  - id: "01-orient"
    title: "Orient Claude to Your Library"
    estimated_minutes: 15
  - id: "02-patron-query"
    title: "Draft a Reference Response"
    estimated_minutes: 15
  - id: "03-synthesize"
    title: "Synthesize Multiple Sources"
    estimated_minutes: 15
  - id: "04-followup"
    title: "Refine and Follow Up"
    estimated_minutes: 15
---

## About This Module

Academic reference work requires quickly assessing patron questions, identifying authoritative sources, and synthesizing information across multiple domains. In this module, you'll learn how Claude Code can help you draft polished reference responses faster—while keeping you in control of the final output.

You won't write any code. Instead, you'll practice giving Claude clear, context-rich prompts and refining its responses for your patrons.

## What You'll Learn

- How to orient Claude Code to your library's communication style using a context file
- How to use `/help` to explore available commands and `/clear` to reset conversation context
- How to reference files directly in prompts using the `@` syntax
- How to draft and refine reference responses for complex patron questions, including follow-ups
- How to ask Claude to flag its own uncertain claims before you share output
- How to iterate on Claude's output through audience reframing, transparency prompting, and constraints
- How to use `claude --print` for quick one-off questions without opening a full session

## Before You Begin

Make sure Claude Code is installed on your machine. Installation instructions for each platform:

- [macOS](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup)
- [Windows](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup#set-up-on-windows)
- [Linux](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/setup)

Once installed, download the workshop materials — **[library-context.zip](https://github.com/eudaemon-ai/claude-cli-academic-library-workshop/releases/download/workshop-materials/library-context.zip)** — unzip it, and navigate to the `library-context/` folder in your terminal. You'll run all exercises from that folder.
